in this lesson we're going to look at
the functionality of the various azure
management solutions
if we go ahead and look at those skills
that are being assessed we're now diving
into the availability of the describe
azure management tools
and then looking at the various
components in this particular lesson the
azure portal azure powershell cli cloud
shell azure mobile app
but then we'll look at things like azure
advisor arm templates azure monitor and
azure service health
so we're going to dive into those
interactions
now as you may remember
we think about well we have azure
and azure has all these different pieces
of functionality
but any management interaction is always
going through that azure
resource manager it doesn't matter which
tool we're using
but as a user i can think about well i'm
i'm sitting at my machine
and there are different
avenues open to me on how i perform that
management
so most obvious one is the portal
and just like everything else all of
these as we're going to see
are going via the azure resource manager
now the portal is super intuitive
i can look around i can understand what
my options are
it's good for viewing
and maybe investigating
if we jump over and look what we'll
actually see is hey from this portal
i can see all the different services
i could go and look at some resource i
had
i can see information about it i get
monitoring information about it i can
see some nice metrics i can get
recommendations i could dive in i could
tweak certain things
so it's really nice for that looking for
that maybe investigation
however
if i actually tried to create something
well it's super slow
it's going to take me a really long time
to fill in all of these values and pick
all of the right options that might be
available
so it's going to be very hard to be
consistent between the creation of
multiple instances maybe over different
applications maybe over different
environments so one of the negatives
we're going to really see about this
portal is
consistency
and also
speed
scale
it just doesn't do those things it's not
designed for doing things on mass i
can't document really exactly what i did
and make it easy to use for someone else
click the third option down it would
take forever
and i can't easily compare what's
deployed with what i wanted to do
so it's nice for that intuitive viewing
of what we have but it's really not good
for even kind of management or
provisioning of resources
now the next option we have is there is
a mobile
application
so this is hey i've got my little mobile
device this could be ios
it could be android
and this is really good for maybe just
looking at a basic alerts
that may be coming over
maybe it's a very basic action i want to
perform
but typically i'm on that smaller form
factor i'm definitely not going to be
creating things from these
but hey i can do some basic type of
interaction from that mobile application
i could start and stop something
so these are a graphical experiences
that we have
available
now the next group of experiences we
have is more around scripting
and there are two
i can think about there is an a z power
shell
module
so power shell is cross platform
so although it started with windows i
can have it on linux
i can have it on mac ox so yes windows
yes linux
yes mac os
so both powershell and the module is
available on there
so this is really useful from a
scripting i want to write something
perform some actions so this is where
we're going to focus on hey i want to
this is imperative
i'm telling it how to do something
so this would be a good solution i want
to perform some automation
and i already know powershell so i'm
already a powershell person my company
has powershell as direction
yeah i'm going to use this
if we jump over super quickly to a
terminal this is a powershell terminal
and it's all about hey i can do things
like get azvm and i could format that as
a table so it's using the familiar power
shell
context of verb noun least cognitive
distance between the command i want to
run i could use these in my powershell
script
this is super useful i could stop it
start it all those kind of management
interactions are great using that
powershell module
now just like we have that
there's also
the azure cli
and once again this is cross platform
so exactly those same options
i could use windows the next mac os once
again all of these same things apply so
all of these properties
apply here they basically have the same
set of capabilities so if that is
graphical
this is all about kind of a command line
interface
and i want to script something i think
hey i want to automate something and
this is more historically around hey
i'm used to bash i'm using bash shell
scripting that's the knowledge i have
i'll probably use the azcli over the
powershell module but their capabilities
are really the same and so if i jump
over once again
now i could absolutely run the azcli
from here but just to kind of demo now
i'm in a command prompt
i could do something like hey
azvm
list
output table so i'm doing exactly the
same thing
but i'm using the azcli
so i see hey yep i have that option
available to me
now one of the key things we actually
have in the portal
and close that down
is if i go back to the portal for a
second
we have this cloud shell so we have this
icon here
and interestingly i can also access this
from the mobile application so if i open
this
it's going to bring me up a shell now i
can pick
of bash or powershell
so here i'm in bash well i can do the
azvm
list
output
table i can use the azcli
or i could jump over to the powershell
and use the powershell module so i have
those different options available to me
so a key point here
is hey we have this az powershell we
have this but from these experiences
both of these
i can access
these
both of them
using cloud
shell
so they can actually be made available
to me
so just remember though no matter which
one we use all of these different
options if it's the portal
if it's the mobile app if it's the
powershell module
if it's the cli it doesn't make any
difference
they're all going through that same
azure resource manager so all of those
same things that have been forced like
authorization like policies will apply
no matter which one i use
so hey i have some scripting need and
i'm used to power showing my company hey
i'll use the az powershell module i have
a scripting need but we're more bash
based hey i use azcli
hey i want to quickly look around on my
mobile device hey i can use the mobile
app
i want to get this intuitive experience
to see what's made me investigate
something i can use the azure portal
because notice
none of these i'm particularly stressing
to create resources and we'll get to arm
templates which is the preferred option
because these are all imperative based
so right now
none of these are the right option
for the best practice way to actually
provision resources